





Medical conditions, disabilities and driving - GOV.UK











































Skip to main content



GOV.UK uses cookies to make the site simpler. Find out more about cookies






 GOV.UK
            

Search


Search












The government has published its plan for the UK leaving the EU. Read about the Plan for Britain.
Hide message







Home


Driving and transport


Driving with medical conditions, Blue Badges and public transport if you're disabled








        
        Medical conditions, disabilities and driving
      










1.
Telling DVLA about a medical condition or disability


2.
What happens after you tell DVLA


3.
What DVLA will decide




4.
Renewing or reapplying for your licence






1. Telling DVLA about a medical condition or disability

You must tell DVLA if you have a driving licence and:

you develop a ‘notifiable’ medical condition or disability
a condition or disability has got worse since you got your licence

Notifiable conditions are anything that could affect your ability to drive safely. They can include:

epilepsy
strokes
other neurological and mental health conditions
physical disabilities
visual impairments


If you’re in Northern Ireland you must contact the Driver and Vehicle Agency (DVA).

How to tell DVLA

Check if you need to tell DVLA about your condition to find the forms or questionnaires you need. The address you need is on the forms.
There are different forms for different conditions and disabilities.
Contact DVLA if you’re not sure what to do.

You could be fined up to £1,000 if you don’t tell DVLA about a condition that might affect your ability to drive safely. You could also be prosecuted if you have an accident.

Surrendering your licence
You must surrender your licence to DVLA if your doctor tells you that you need to stop driving for 3 months or more because of your medical condition.
You can apply to get your licence back when you meet the medical standards for driving again.
First licence or renewal if you’re 70 or over
You must also tell DVLA about notifiable conditions if you:

apply for your first licence
renew your licence (if you’re 70 or over)

You’ll be asked for this information in your application form. You don’t need to contact DVLA separately.





Next What happens after you tell DVLA
 




Print entire guide




Last updated:  5 April 2017






        Driving with medical conditions, Blue Badges and public transport if you're disabled
      



Driving eyesight rules


Reapply for a driving licence following a medical condition


Check if a health condition affects your driving


Apply for a disabled person's bus pass


Transport if you're disabled



                More
                  
                    in
                    Driving with medical conditions, Blue Badges and public transport if you're disabled
                  
 



        Driving and transport
      



Vehicles exempt from vehicle tax



                More
                  
                    in
                    Driving and transport
                  
 



        Elsewhere on GOV.UK
      



Find out about community transport services and Shopmobility


Personal Independence Payment (PIP)




        Elsewhere on the web
      



Motability









Help us improve GOV.UK





Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details.
What you were doing

What went wrong


Send










Services and information

Benefits
Births, deaths, marriages and care
Business and self-employed
Childcare and parenting
Citizenship and living in the UK
Crime, justice and the law
Disabled people
Driving and transport


Education and learning
Employing people
Environment and countryside
Housing and local services
Money and tax
Passports, travel and living abroad
Visas and immigration
Working, jobs and pensions



Departments and policy

How government works
Departments
Worldwide
Policies
Publications
Announcements






Support links

Help
Cookies
Contact
Terms and conditions
Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg
Built by the Government Digital Service



Open Government Licence
All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated



© Crown copyright












