 
 






















Wikimedia pegs future on education, not profit - SFGate






































































































Subscribe


Sign In



 













Home





Contact SFGate


Classifieds


About SFGate 


About SFGate
FAQ
SFGate Newsletters
SFGate Staff
Careers
Site Index
Hearst




About The Chronicle 


About The Chronicle
The Chronicle Staff
Become a Subscriber
Manage Your Subscription
Customer Service
Careers
e-edition
Back Copies
Chronicle in Education
Corrections




Advertise with Us


More on Advertising 


More on Advertising
Place a Classified Ad
About Our Ads
Public Notices
Local Business Directory
Place an Obituary
Gate List




Store


Privacy policy 


Privacy policy
Ad Choices




Chronicle Archives


Terms of Use


Newsletters


Get news alerts









 SFGate Customer support




 Get VIP access with SF Chronicle Membership




 Get SFGate newsletters for the latest from the Bay




 Check out the Top 100 Bay Area restaurants








Local





Bay Area & State News


Traffic


Weather


Precipitation Data


Crime


Earthquakes


Obituaries


Video









 Raiders owe Coliseum up to $800,000 in parking fees, audit shows




 Man accused of killing mother in front of her sons in Richmond is




 Some displaced by Oakland blaze move from shelter to hotels




 SF police union claims bias in promotions








News





Education


Nation


World


Politics


Cannabis


Sponsored: Clean Energy CA









 As Heitkamp supports Gorsuch, many Democrats at home shrug




 Grieving Haitians go into lifetime of debt to fund funerals




 Baldwin's Supreme Court nominee fight is early flashpoint




 Over There: WWI innovations still with us a century later








Sports





49ers


Raiders


Giants


A's


Warriors


Quakes


Golf


Sports Calendar


NFL


MLB


NBA


College


Preps


Outdoors









 A’s lose 5-0, Jharel Cotton baffles Mike Trout




 Giants lose in Arizona after key Brandon Belt error




 Warriors survive in Phoenix to lock up No. 1 seed




 John Axford goes on DL with shoulder strain








Business





Scotland Business Opportunities


Technology


Mortgage Rates


Home Guides


Public Notices


Sponsored Content


The Tech Chronicles


VisionSF


Jobs









 Tough luck for Uber, Lyft drivers; a triangular matzo?




 Facebook takes new steps to block ‘revenge porn’




 The best memes lampooning Pepsi's Kendall Jenner ad




 YouTube launches TV service








A&E;





The Daily Dish


Snow


Movies


Music & Nightlife


Performance


Art


Cannabis


Events


TV


Horoscope


Comics


Crosswords & Puzzles


Reno-Tahoe


Things To Do









 Symphony Pride concert brings joy to LGBTQ community and friends




 The latest from Dear Abby




 Japanese anime ‘Your Name’ goes in delightful directions




 Sidney Lumet series at Balboa Theatre begins with ‘Serpico’








Food





Restaurants


Wine


Top 100 Restaurants


Chronicle Wine Competition


Reservations


Beer News


Inside Scoop SF


Healthy Eating


Michael Bauer's Blog









 Delivery, geofencing, robotic kiosks: Welcome to McDonald's of




 An American restaurant tops the World's 50 Best list, Saison




 10 American foods foreigners find disgusting




 Ristorante Umbria to close after two decades in SoMa








Living





Home & Garden


Style


Parties


Lust


LGBT


Mommy Files & Parenting


Houzz


Outdoors


Health


Blogs


Education


Sponsored


Schools, Camps & Activities









 Cannabis




 Lullaby versions of ‘Hamilton’ songs coming to a nap




 Make your plans: All California National Parks will be free two




 See Anza-Borrego's super bloom from space








Travel





Monterey-Carmel


Weekend Getaways


Wine Country


Napa


Reno-Tahoe


Hawaii


Mexico


Snow


Chris McGinnis' Travel Tips









 Suite Spot: Chileno Bay Resort, Cabo San Lucas




 Trio of jackets that make most of a rainy day




 Rick Steves: What’s new in Germany, Vienna and Prague




 One Day, One Place: Palermo neighborhood of Buenos Aires








Real Estate





The Walk-Through


New Homes


Open Homes


Luxury


Rentals


Mortgage Rates


Commercial


Place an ad


Home Guides


Home Sales


On the Block Blog









 Three-house Cow Hollow compound—in the same family for over a




 Walk-through: Trilevel in SF’s Glen Park linked to street by




 Daniel Liebermann masterpiece in Mill Valley is a redwood and




 New study graphically displays California’s dismal rate of










Cars





Dealers


Click and Clack


Car Blog


My Ride


Al's Road to the Big Game


Sell Your Car









 Infiniti Q60 Red Sport a racy, versatile performer




 Showboating Mustang crashes after leaving Lambo dealership




 Latest Impreza debuts Subaru’s Global Platform Architecture




 Chevy Caprice is a tribute to family history








Jobs





Job Events


Hearst, SFGATE Jobs


Advertise


Salary Wizard


Get To Work









 Make a job fair work for you




 Finding a good mentor is one of the best career strategies




 Should you take a counteroffer?




 Small talk has a big impact on your career








Classifieds


Chronicle





Latest columns


Michael Bauer


Leah Garchik


Bruce Jenkins


Esther Mobley


Ann Killion


Otis R. Taylor Jr.


Thomas Lee


Matier & Ross


Heather Knight


Kathleen Pender


Scott Ostler









 Special Report: Forgotten Survivors of AIDS




 Rising reality: Managing rising sea levels




 Beyond Homelessness: Tackling SF's epidemic




 Michael Bauer's Top 100 Restaurants










 


MenuSections














 










http://www.sfgate.com/news/article/Wikimedia-pegs-future-on-education-not-profit-3271984.php



Wikimedia pegs future on education, not profit
Despite popularity, Wikimedia Foundation ties its value to education, not advertising


Chris Cadelago, Chronicle Staff Writer


			Published 4:00 am, Sunday, August 24, 2008
		





























































































































































































































                                            Photo: Brant Ward, The Chronicle
                                    
 


Image 1of/2
CaptionClose



















Image 1 of 2


Sue Gardner talks about the future of Wikimedia in a nearby office at the Wikimedia Foundation. Sue Gardner is the new executive director of Wikimedia located here in San Francisco Thursday, August 7, 2008.
Sue Gardner talks about the future of Wikimedia in a nearby office at the Wikimedia Foundation. Sue Gardner is the new executive director of Wikimedia located here in San Francisco Thursday, August 7, 2008.

                                            Photo: Brant Ward, The Chronicle
                                    

 



Image 2 of 2


Sue Garner laughs as she talks to co-workers at the Wikimedia Foundation office. Sue Gardner is the new executive director of Wikimedia located here in San Francisco Thursday, August 7, 2008.
Sue Garner laughs as she talks to co-workers at the Wikimedia Foundation office. Sue Gardner is the new executive director of Wikimedia located here in San Francisco Thursday, August 7, 2008.

                                            Photo: Brant Ward, The Chronicle
                                    








 






Wikimedia pegs future on education, not profit

1 / 2


Back to Gallery
















Google has its Googleplex, Craigslist has a Victorian flat, and the seventh-most-popular Web site in the world has this: a 3,000-square-foot nondescript loft situated in San Francisco's South Park below Interstate 80.
In many ways, the rented office befits the Wikimedia Foundation, the 5-year-old nonprofit group that runs Wikipedia, and an organization rich in dichotomies. 
Until its headquarters were moved to San Francisco in January, the foundation worked in obscurity in St. Petersburg, Fla., while its crown jewel, Wikipedia, the "encyclopedia anyone can edit," flourished. The English-language version of the encyclopedia boasts about 300 million page views a day, making it so popular that if the site were to seek advertising, it would attract record profit. 
Analysts have pegged Wikipedia's value between several hundred million dollars and $7 billion, the latter by Silicon Alley Insider, a technology blog known for its list of the World's Most Valuable Digital Startups. But its keepers have thus far refused to sell ad space. They are adamant that the encyclopedia's value is tied up not in potential advertising revenue but in something much loftier - its ability to positively affect the news industry, educational publishing and the nature of open-source knowledge creation and dissemination. 




LATEST TRENDING VIDEOS: Story continues below  

 "When we got (to San Francisco), I was totally surprised by the misconceptions that people had about Wikimedia," said Sue Gardner, Wikimedia's recently appointed executive director. "It's a charity. Nobody is making any money from the organization. Nobody has made any money, and nobody will ever get rich from it because we're never going to sell it. We're not open for business; we're not looking for investment."
Before joining Wikimedia, Gardner, 41, was senior director of the Canadian Broadcasting Corp.'s news Web site, where she supervised the implementation of blogs, podcasts and advertisements. 
'Now we are competent'
Gardner said she selected San Francisco as the place to further the mission of Wikipedia - and its lesser known sister sites Wikiquote, an online quote depository; Wiktionary, a multilingual dictionary; Wikiversity, a project to create educational materials; and Wikinews, a news site - for its tech talent, not its IPO wizards and venture capitalists. Hired in July 2007 as a management consultant and named executive director in December, she was brought in to restructure and expand an organization that had just nine employees but millions of readers and contributors. 
"I remember saying in November, before coming to San Francisco, that we were as unsophisticated as possible," Gardner said on a recent afternoon at the foundation's headquarters. "Now we are competent. We have a basic idea of what we are doing and a team coming together to get things done."
In the past nine months, Wikimedia's core staff has grown to 21 and includes six programmers, an in-house general counsel, heads of communications, accounting and business development, and three fundraisers to meet its projected budget of $2.9 million for 2007-08. 
So far, so good. Gardner and her team have secured an average of $35 from about 45,000 online contributors for a total of $1.5 million through a Web-based pledge drive, along with an annual donation of $1 million for the next three years from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Other donors include Vinod and Neeru Khosla, Sun Microsystems' founding chief executive officer and his wife, who gave $500,000, and the Stanton Foundation, which gave $262,000.
Gardner also has instituted a code of conduct for employees of the foundation, outlined a travel and reimbursement policy - Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales was accused this spring of improperly handling foundation funds, though he and the foundation categorically denied the claims - and introduced criminal background checks for prospective employees. The foundation made headlines last year after news broke that Carolyn Bothwell Doran, its former chief operating officer, was convicted of theft, drunken driving and fleeing the scene of an automobile accident before she was hired.
"Sue Gardner has really been key in professionalizing the Wikimedia Foundation," Wales told The Chronicle. "Before Sue, we operated as a community club. Now we operate as a community club with sound management."
Open-source strategies
Though she finds herself at the top of one of the world's most popular Web sites and thus the de facto leader of a huge community, the 17-year journalist remains keenly interested in newsgathering. 
"Everybody is grappling with what to do about the decline in the newspaper industry," she said. "When I was in the conventional media, we all spent a lot of time wondering what we were doing wrong. I don't see it that way at all. There's amazing journalism going on at newspapers and at NPR. To me, it's a market shakeout or a market correction."
Because Wikipedia in all of its 200 languages is open source - meaning the sites rely on the skills of hundreds of computer programmers to improve the free, adaptable software and about 100,000 content providers to edit the 2.5 million articles - the foundation is committed to giving back to its contributors. Gardner envisions a community-administered grant process to bolster the depth and quality of the encyclopedia and news entries and to enable the foundation to pay volunteers for projects ranging from community outreach, such as group lectures and tutoring, to investigative reporting. But such plans, she said, are still rough.
Wikipedia articles are sometimes known to the non-tech public as the Internet incarnation of the wisdom of crowds. But the editing system, made up of about 7.6 million registered users and countless more who are unregistered, has become quite structured. 
Contributors range from volunteer editors, who create and proofread articles, to elected administrators with the power to block users, lock articles (mostly because of tampering or disagreement within the community) and cancel entries altogether. To help smooth the process and ensure quality, the foundation is exploring a feature on the English-language Wikipedia called "flagged revisions," which allows trusted editors to affix quality labels to articles that are true and vandalism free. 
Ed Chi of the Palo Alto Research Center is the creator of WikiDashboard, a social dynamic analysis tool created independently of the foundation that allows readers to analyze all of the edits made by their peers. In October, Chi discovered a huge drop-off in the number of edits, to the point that 1 percent of editors were editing 50 percent of the content. While Wikipedia remains strong in page views and overall ranking, Chi said the waning interest among editors does not bode well for the site or community. 
"The edits have leveled off and remained steady," Chi said. "We don't yet know a reason for the decline, but we suspect it is due not to the wisdom of crowds but to the increased level of conflict among community members. Often it is not the one with the right answer who has their say, but the one who sticks around the longest and is best able to argue his case." 
Seeking a new model
For the immediate future, Gardner is focused on three goals: increasing participation; improving quality; and making much of Wikipedia's content available in the form of DVDs, and a new portable data file feature that will allow users to compile articles as a single file, export them as a PDF, and send them to a printer. Wikipedia also plans to offer video-editing capabilities, so that users can combine sound and image.
Like most tech organizations, Wikipedia now faces competition from Google, which in July launched Knol, a compilation of user-written articles. But unlike Wikipedia, the articles on Knol include bylines and must be written by experts. MediaWiki, offered by Wikimedia as free, open-source software, also powers Citizendium, an online encyclopedia spearheaded by former Wikipedian Larry Sanger.
"I don't see any competition, direct or indirect, that will significantly change Wikipedia," said John Broughton, a registered editor of the site and the author of "Wikipedia: The Missing Manual." Broughton said he believes the foundation must continue to expand Wikipedia beyond its core of smart, geeky and mostly male contributors to become a fully representative, mainstream encyclopedia. 
To address this, Wikipedia has arranged for a survey of its editors.
"I think our next challenge is figuring out how to really support and facilitate their work," said Gardner, referring to the projects' contributors. "The bills are getting paid, the servers are running, there's stationery, people have business cards. This is a really new model, something the world has never seen. It deserves new approaches."
Wikipedia by the numbers Wikipedia constantly updates these statistics, for the encyclopedia's English-language version. For the latest figures, go to www.en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Statistics. 2,523,321total articles245,995,447total edits17.19average number of edits per page (since July 2002)805,614media files7,701,965registered user accounts1,585administrator accountsSource: Wikipedia 
















Latest from the SFGATE homepage:
Click below for the top news from around the Bay Area and beyond. Sign up for our newsletters to be the first to learn about breaking news and more. Go to 'Sign In' and 'Manage Profile' at the top of the page.




















LATEST NEWS
 



Berkeley becomes 2nd city to ban fur clothing
Audit: Raiders owe Coliseum up to $800K in parking fees
Court: Boy can sue PG&E; over injury at park
Bill O’Reilly’s new book debuts at No. 1 on NYT list
Man arrested, accused of killing mom in front of her sons
Trump says Bill O'Reilly did nothing wrong
Read essay that got teen into 7 Ivy League schools
Principal resigns after HS journalists check her credentials

 








Woman falls off NorCal bridge while taking selfie
Report: Selfie-taking teens killed after being hit by plane
His selfie went viral for all the wrong reasons








Curry scores 42, Warriors clinch West with win over Suns
Kerr ‘got good kick’ out of Rodman’s resting comments








BART sued over 'filthy' elevators, broken escalators
Weekend maintenance will disrupt BART service








New SF building uses wiring, ‘shock’ tape to deter pigeons
Pigeon on BART restores faith in humanity



 

 









TODAY'S TOP PICKS
 



Best memes lampooning Pepsi's now-pulled Jenner ad
Barry Manilow says he kept his sexuality secret for 'fans'
10 American foods foreigners find disgusting

 

 




 


























 




Most Popular






1

Woman falls off Northern Calif. bridge while taking selfie



2

Lawmaker: Miscarrying women must carry dead fetuses to term



3

San Francisco's most expensive house: This $40 million modern...



4

These high school journalists investigated a new principal’s...



5

Read the essay that got a high-school senior into 7 Ivy League...



6

Rights groups sue BART over ‘filthy’ elevators, broken...



7

Merriam-Webster responds to Ivanka Trump's claim ‘I don’t...



8

Man accused of killing mother in front of her sons in Richmond...



9

Texas masturbation bill is now in the hands of the Texas State...



10

Barry Manilow says he kept his sexuality secret for 'fans'














LATEST NEWS
 



Berkeley becomes 2nd city to ban fur clothing
Audit: Raiders owe Coliseum up to $800K in parking fees
Court: Boy can sue PG&E; over injury at park
Bill O’Reilly’s new book debuts at No. 1 on NYT list
Man arrested, accused of killing mom in front of her sons
Trump says Bill O'Reilly did nothing wrong
Read essay that got teen into 7 Ivy League schools
Principal resigns after HS journalists check her credentials

 







THE CHRONICLE'S VISIONSF
 



Inspiring Leadership with Purpose
Learn about visionary Bay Area business leaders who strive to make the world a better place.









 



 View Comments 



© 2017 Hearst Communications, Inc.


 

 












Logo
Return to Top



About

Our Company
Careers
Advertising
Ad Choices
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Your California Privacy Rights



Contact

Customer Service
Newsroom Contacts



Connect

Sign up for Email  Alerts
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest

Google
Instagram



Subscribe

SFChronicle.com
App
e-edition
The Chronicle Archives
Subscription Offers
Store
Subscriber Services




Hearst Newspapers
© Copyright  Hearst Communications, Inc.






 























