






Spring 2002 300-Level Courses
















programs
  	 
graduate 

how to apply
program guides
course schedules
finanical support
placement committee
graduate faculty
students 

current & former
recent ph.d.'s




undergraduate 

advising 

internships
career information
preparation for grad school
teaching careers
diversity 

short guide 
course lists
notable writers of color
list of authors 
author summaries 


frequently asked questions


how to apply
BA requirements
minor requirements
course schedules
honors program
internships
events calendar
alumni


writing 

expository writing
creative writing 

our story
master of fine arts
BA with writing emphasis
FAQ
faculty
Friday Harbor programs
money matters
scholarships & prizes
readings & publications


interdisciplinary writing (IWP)
community literacy (CLP)
uw in the high school


ESL
CIC
study abroad


people
  	 
full directory
faculty 

alphabetically
by rank
overview


TAs
staff 

alphabetically
by office


profiles


news & events
  	 
calendar
newsletter
publications
Roethke reading


tools & resources
  	 
teaching with technology
Odegaard writing center
undergraduate advising
affiliated societies
humanities center


support english
home
  	 
undergraduate
English Department
Arts & Sciences
Univ. of Washington



SPRING 2002
    300-level Courses





majoring/minoring in english
undergraduate programs
admission to the major
the english minor
major/degree requirements
course descriptions
advising
staying connected
opportunities
study abroad
fall in friday harbor
english honors
phi beta kappa
sigma tau delta
annual dean's list
bricolage
scholarships and prizes
undergraduate research
internships
life after college
career information
graduate school preparation
for prospective teachers
publishing
resources & information
english studies librarian
diversity info
graduation
alumni
student groups and publications
frequently asked questions
prospective UW students
contact us
undergraduate site map




Course Descriptions (as of 28 February 2002)
The following course descriptions have been written by individual instructors
  to provide more detailed information on specific section sthan that found in
  the General Catalog.  When individual descriptions are not available,
  the General Catalog descriptions [in brackets] are used. (Although we try to
  have as accurate and complete information as possible, this schedule remains
  subject to change.) 


 To Spring Quarter  200-level courses 
 To Spring Quarter  400-level courses
To 2001-2002 Senior Seminars

 


307 A (Cultural Studies: Literature and the Age) 
MW 9:30-11:20 
Rob Mitchell 
Literature in the Age of Consumption. While the "consumer
society" does not come fully into its own until the twentieth century, a
number of commentators have noted recently the extent to which the basic
structures of the consumer society were established in the late seventeenth
and early eighteenth centuries.  This latter period witnessed a massive
expansion of the middle class, and the subsequent development of "consumer
markets," modes of intellectual property (copyrights and patents) that we
now take for granted, and even the development of commercially-oriented forms
of political protest such as "consumer boycotts."  Poets, novelists,
and essayists of the late seventeenth and eighteenth centuries were quite
aware of these changes, and one can track their engagement in the literary
productions of this period.  In this course, we will consider this intersection
of consumer culture and eighteenth century literature from three perspectives.  
First, we will consider how authors reflected on and attempted to alter these 
commercial developments.  Second, we will observe what these literary 
documents tell us about the history of the consumer society (especially as 
they reflect on the development of copyright; the political power of consumers; 
and the relationship between consumption and gender). Finally, we will consider 
how the eighteenth century obsession with commodities and consumption helps 
us to think about the role of consumerism in our own society.  We will 
consider selections from Daniel Defoe, Richard Steele, Joseph Addison, Alexander
Pope, Tobias Smollett (Expedition of Humphrey Clinker) and Fanny Burney 
(Evelina), among others  In addition, we will consider several 
theoretical texts on consumption and commodities, including Elizabeth Kowalski-Wallace's Consuming
Subjects: British Women & Consumer Culture in the Eighteenth 
Century, James Boyle's Shamans, Software, and Spleens: Law and the 
Construction of the Information Society, and selections from The Consumer
Society Reader.  (Will meet Period 2 requirement for majors.) 
Texts: Tobias Smollett, Humphrey Clinker; Frances Burney, Evelina; 
Erin Mackie, Commerce of Everyday Life: Selections from the Tatler & the
Spectator; Elizabeth Kowaleski-Wallace, Consuming Subjects: British 
Women and Consumer Culture in the Eighteenth Century; James Boyle, Shamans, 
Software, and Spleens: Law and the Construction of the Information Society.
312 A (Jewish Literature: Biblical to Modern) 
TTh 9:30-11:20 
Butwin 
 For simplicity’s sake let’s call this 3000 years in ten weeks.  In
order to reduce that already vast reduction to a few words I will list the
headings of sections of the course: Jewish Literature as Jewish History;
Biblical Narrative; Martyrdom and Suffering; Destruction and Exile; Exile
and Yearning; Messiah and the End of Days; Hasidism and Enlightenment; Zion
rejects Exile; Exile in the New World; and a section on modern apocalyptic
visions of the 1930s and 1940s.  In this mammoth and, I hope, exhilarating
task, we will see how a common culture coheres over time and how writers
are obliged by the conditions of the world to depart from that coherence.
In additon to Biblical texts, all readings will appear on Electronic Reserve;
the course will feature lecture, discussion and short essays.  Students
who don’t own an English translation of the Bible should buy one.  No
additonal texts.  Meets with SISJE 312. 
315 A (Literary Modernism) 
TTh 10:30-12:20 
LaGuardia 
Naturalism and Symbolism. Various modern authors, from Wordsworth
to the present, in relation to such major thinkers as Kant, Hegel, Darwin,
Marx, Nietzsche, Bergson, and Wittgenstein, who have helped create the context 
and the content of modern literature. Recommended: ENGL 230 or one 300-level 
course in 19th or 20th century literature.  Texts: Nietzsche, 
Twilight of the Idols; Mann, Death in Venice; Freud, Dora; 
Ibsen, A Doll's House; Strindberg, Miss Julie; Eliot, Waste 
Land; Flaubert,, Madame Bovary. 
322 A (English Literature: The Age of Queen Elizabeth) 
MW 1:30-3:20 
Streitberger 
 The golden age of English poetry, with poems by Shakespeare, Spenser, Sidney, 
and others; drama by Marlowe and other early rivals to Shakespeare; prose 
by Sir Thomas More and the great Elizabethan translators. Majors only, 
Registration Period 1. Texts: Hollander & Kermode, eds., The 
Literature of the Renaissance; Jamieison, ed., Ben Jonson: Three Comedies; 
Machiavelli, The Prince; More, Utopia; Shakespeare, Hamlet.

323 A (Shakespeare to 1603) 
Dy 8:30 
Frey   
 Study of Shakespeare’s poems and plays to 1603 with emphasis upon meter,
rhythm, imagery, tone, explication, interpretation, reader-response, and
student performance.  All students are required to perform memorized
parts in a small performance group that meets all quarter long.  Also
required: discussion, written exercises, and two hour-tests.  Meets
five days a week.  A demanding course.  Major emphasis this quarter
will fall on the topic of “Shakespeare and Love,” emphasizing relations among 
Shakespeare’s Sonnets, Venus and Adonis, A Midsummer Night’s Dream, 
Romeo and Juliet, Twelfth Night, and films of those three plays 
together with the film Shakespeare in Love. Majors only, Registration Period
1. Texts: Shakespeare, The Poems; A Midsummer Night's Dream;
Romeo and Juliet; Twelfth Night; Hamlet. 
324 A (Shakespeare after 1603) 
 TTh 9:30-11:20 
 Coldewey 
 [Shakespeare's career as dramatist after 1603. Study of comedies, tragedies,
 and romances.] 
327 A (English Literature: Restoration & Early 18th C.) 
MW 10:30-12:20 
Lockwood 
 The writers and literature of England from 1660 to 1750.  We will be 
reading plays, prose, and poetry, chosen to illustrate the variety as well 
as the creative force of the written work in this period, bringing to live 
(for instance) the urban horrors of Defoe’s Journal of the Plague Year, 
the aristocratic dreamworld of Pope’s Rape of the Lock, the cheerful 
crooks of The Beggar’s Opera, or the big people and little people of
Gulliver’s Travels.  Major authors covered include Dryden, Congreve,
Defoe, Swift, Pope, Gay, Fielding, and Thompson, with emphasis on careful
reading for understanding and enjoyment of this literature in its social
and cultural context.  Two papers with revision, weekly one-page reading
responses, mid-term final. Majors only, Registration Period 1. Text:
Norton Anthology of English Literature, Vol. 1C (Restoration &
18th C.) 
328 YA (English Literature: Later 18th C.) 
TTh 7-8:50 pm 
A. Fisher 
 Reading list includes novels from Tobias Smollett and Frances Burney, prose 
and poetry from Samuel Johnson, and poetry from Thomas Gray, William Collins, 
and otehrs.  Focus of the course will be on two kinds of history: social 
history, as reflected in the novels, and literary history, as reflected in 
the struggle of the poets to find different voices than those of the earlier 
century.  Course grade will be determined by a portfolio of daily response 
papers, no more than 2 pages long, graded as a set but not individually, by
participation, and by a final examinations. Evening Degree students only,
Registration Period 1.  Texts: Smollett, Humphrey  Clinker;
Burney, Evelina; Cook, ed., The Wordswroth Book of Restoration
and 18th-Century Verse; Greene, ed., Samuel Johnson: The Major Works.

329 A (Rise of the English Novel) 
MW 1:30-3:20 
Rob Mitchell 
 In this course, we will consider different attempts to define the characteristic
 qualities, and historical emergence, of "the novel."  Our efforts will 
be channeled through readings of texts that have been the focus of efforts 
to define the novel, such as Daniel Defoe's Robinson Crusoe, Samuel 
Richardson's Pamela, Henry Fielding's Tom Jones, Tobias Smollett's 
The Expedition of Humphrey Clinker, and Fanny Burney's Evelina. 
 We will be especially concerned with the relationship between commerce and 
the novel, as we consider, for example, Ian Watt's account of the novel as 
dependent upon the emergence of the middle class, as well as Michael McKeon's 
more recent critique of Watt's thesis.  We will also consider at length 
theoretical categories that have been vital to explanations of the novel, 
such as the distinction between "romance" and "novel"; the notion of "formal 
realism"; the importance of epistolary form and its relation to questions 
of "sensibility"; and the development of "character." Majors only, Registration 
Period 1.  Texts: Daniel Defoe, Robinson Crusoe; Samuel 
Richardson, Pamela: Or Virtue Rewarded; Tobias Smollett, Humphrey 
Clinker; Henry Fielding, Tom Jones; Frances Burney, Evelina.

332 A (Romantic Poetry II) 
TTh 1:30-3:20 
Modiano 
 The first two weeks of the course will offer a general introduction to the 
history (the French Revolution and its impact on the first and second generation 
of the romantics), philosophy, religion and aesthetics of the period.  
Subsequently we will engage in a close study of the works of Keats, Shelley, 
Byron and Mary Shelley, focusing on topics such as nature and the quest for 
transcendence, artistic experiments in the genre of romance and the epic, 
the concept of the imagination and the predicament of the poet, the aesthetics 
of the sublime, the representation of the Promethean myth, and Mary Shelley’s 
and Byron’s critique of romantic idealism.  Requirements include two 
papers and a final exam.  Majors only, Registration Period 1.  
Texts: Keats, Selected Poems and Letters (ed. Bush); Percy Shelley,
Poetry and Prose; Mary Shelley, Frankenstein; George Gordon
Byron, Byron’s Poetry; Marilyn Butler, ed., Burke, Paine, Godwin
and the Revolution Controversy. 
333 A (English Novel: Early & Middle 19th C.) 
TTh 9:30-11:20 
Hennessee 
 “And they lived happily ever after.”  “They” more likely than not got 
married.  As a device of narrative closure, marriage is ubiquitous,
and to sustain interest until the happy event occurs novels often describe
obstacles to nuptial bliss.  In this course, we will examine the marriage
plot under stress.  We will read five novels that question, problematize,
 evade, or even thwart the marriage plot.  In so doing, our goals will
 be three: (1) to understand the socio-historical conditioning of (what can 
seem) timeless, natural dynamics of love, sex, heterosexuality, and marriage; 
(2) to examine how diverse narrative forms differently shape the marriage 
plot (and other elements of narrative content; (3) to use the novelistic marriage
plot as a window through which to view early and mid-nineteenth-century British
society. More generally, the course offers introduction to some important 
novels of the period, whose often bizarre storylines will hopefully provide 
enjoyable reading.  Some lecture on historical context, more discussion.  
Primary texts will be supplemented with historical, critical, and theoretical 
texts, and in-class screenings of film adaptations.  Majors only, 
Registration Period 1. Texts: Jane Austen, Pride and Prejudice; 
Mary Shelley, Frankenstein; Emily Brontë, Wuthering Heights; 
Charles Dickens, Great Expectations; Elizabeth Gaskell, Cranford; 
Daniel Pool, What Jane Austen Ate and Charles Dickens Knew. 
334 A (English Novel: Later 19th C.) 
Dy 10:30 
Alexander 
 This course offers a modest sampling of the rich abundance of the Victorian
 novel.  Attention will be given to the historical and philosophical
backgrounds against which the novels appeared, as well as to the lives of
their authors.  But the major emphasis will be on the aesthetic relation
between content and form. Majors only, Registration Period 1. Texts:
A. Trollope, The Warden; C. Dickens, Great Expectations; G.
Eliot, Middlemarch; T. Hardy, Jude the Obscure; O. Wilde, Picture
of Dorian Gray; J. Conrad, The Secret Agent. 
334 B (English Novel: Later 19th C.) 
MW 1:30-3:20 
Tandy 
 Vampires, murderesses, African goddesses, creepy old ladies in wedding gowns,
 
opium addicts, debauched gentlemen: these books have it all!  This quarter
 we'll be looking at scandalous books; books about scandal touching the lives

of respectable Victorians, and books that scandalized their respectable Victorian

audience.  Through them all, we'll trace the undercurrents of anxiety 
and obsession that ran through late Victorian society: undercurrents (for 
example) of sexuality, foreignness, class, and change.  Majors only,

Registration Period 1.  Texts: Dickens, Great Expectations;

Collins, The Moonstone; Braddon, Lady Audley's Secret; Stoker, 
Dracula; Haggard, She and Allen; Hardy, Tess of the D'Urbervilles.

335 A (English Literature: The Age of Victoria) 
MW 1:30-3:20 
Blake
Individualism.  Victorian literature and culture provide 
many sources for values we would place under the term Individualism. 
 Individualist values are at stake in this period in concrete areas of commerce
 and industry and social and political reform, while they are also at stake
 in art and in more intangible areas of philosophic ideas of what constitutes
 reality.  We will look at important texts that characterize the age
and range across Victorian themes of “self help,” the “gospel of work,” capitalist 
“free enterprise,” sociopolitical “liberalism,” the “woman question,” reality 
as made-up “wonderland,” and “art for art’s sake.”  Emphasis on prose 
essays and fiction, with texts drawn from full works or shorter selections 
from J. S. Mill, Thomas Carlyle, George Eliot, Matthew Arnold, Lewis Carroll, 
Oscar Wilde, and/or possibly Anthony Trollope. Lecture-discussion format.  
Requirements: class participation, essay midterm and final and 8 - 
10 pp. paper.  Majors only, Registration Period 1. Texts:
Matthew  Arnold, Selected Poems and Prose; Lewis Carroll, Alice
in Wonderland  and Through the Looking Glass; Thomas Carlyle, Sartor
Resartus;  George Eliot, Middlemarch; John Stuart Mill, On
Liberty and the  Subjection of Women; Anthony Trollope, The Warden;
Aldington, ed., The Portable Oscar Wilde. 
336 A (English Literature: The Early Modern Period) 
MW 9:30-11:20 
Keeling 
 [Experiments in fiction and poetry. Novels by Joyce, Woolf, Lawrence, and 
others; poetry by Eliot and Yeats and others.] Majors only, Registration
 Period 1. Texts: Virginia Woolf, Jacob's Roome; Mrs. Dalloway;
 Mrs. Dalloway's Party; Rebecca West, The Return of the Soldier;
 James Joyce, The Dead; D. H. Lawrence, Lady Chatterley's Lover;
 E. M. Forster, Maurice; May Sinclair, Mary Oliver: A Life;
Thomas Hardy, Jude the Obscure; Jean Rhys, Good Morning, Midnight.

338 A (Modern Poetry) 
Dy 1:30 
Sale 
 The Modern is now almost a century old; it has always had a reputation for 
being Difficult.  So here we make our way with three Difficult poets: 
W.B.Yeats and Robert Frost seemed to get more Difficult as they got older;  
Wallace Stevens was Difficult with his first breath.  If everyone tries 
to be open and honest about whatever difficulty they are having, we can give 
all three a decent shot.  Non-majors okay, Registration Period 
1.  Texts: Yeats, Collected Poems; Stevens, Emperor 
of Ice Cream; Frost, Collected Poems. 
340 A (Modern Anglo-Irish Literature) 
MW 1:30-3:20 
McRae 
 This course examines how the work of several early twentieth Irish authors 
both expressed and shaped Irish history and culture, and influenced the literary 
forms and thematic concerns of international literary modernism.  Authors 
will include James Joyce, W.B. Yeats, Sean O'Casey, John M. Synge, Flann O'Brien
and Samuel Beckett, and genres will include poems, plays and novels. Recommended
preparation: genuine interest in early twentieth century Irish authors; at
least one course in composition and one in literary study; familiarity with
or tolerance for difficult or obscure literary forms.  Assignments will
include several short essays; grading will be based on successful completion 
of written assignments, class participation.  Majors only, Registration 
Period 1.  Texts: Yeats, Collected Poems; Joyce, Portrait 
of the Artist as a Young Man; O’Casey, Three Plays; Synge, The 
Playboy of the Western World and Other Plays; Beckett, Malloy/Malone 
Dies/The Unnameable; O’Brien, At Swim Two Birds. 
342 A (Contemporary Novel) 
 MW 11:30-1:20 
 C. Fischer 
 [Recent efforts to change the shape and direction of the novel by such writers 
as Murdoch, Barth, Hawkes, Fowles, and Atwood.] Majors only, Registration 
Period 1. 
345 A (Studies in Film) 
T 11:30-2:20/Th 11:30-1:20 
Elkington 
American Independent Film Since Soderbergh.  How do we 
define the independent film in America? When Steven Soderbergh won the Oscar 

for Best Director at the 2001 Academy Awards, it marked the culmination of 
a fitting metaphor for the development of the American independent industry
 and its commodification by the Hollywood industry.  Debuting at the
Sundance Film Festival in 1989, Soderbergh's sex, lies and videotape
was hailed as the coming of American independent cinema's new voice, and
was almost single-handedly responsible for establishing Sundance as the primary
marketplace for filmmakers looking to make an entrance to the American film
industry.  Soderbergh's career since 1989 has shuttled between intensely
personal and esoteric films such as Schizopolis (1996) and more straightforward, 
though intelligent, Hollywood fare such as Out of Sight (1998).  
Looking to Soderbergh's career and Sundance's history as two templates for 
understanding recent events in American film, this course traces the independent 
aesthetic through filmmakers such as Richard Linklater, Hal Hartley, Quentin 
Tarantino, and Alison Anders.  Pointing to films like Being John Malkovich
(1999), Election (1999), American Beauty (1999), and Soderbergh's
Traffic (2000), we will discuss the influence of the independents
upon the larger film industry.  Soderbergh's acceptance of the Best
Director Oscar then parallels both the commercial victory of American independent
filmmaking and the consupmption of that vision by Hollywood at large. 
N.B.: Students may not be concurrently enrolled in C LIT
397YA. Text: Emanuel Levy, Cinema of Outsiders. 
350 A (Traditions in American Fiction) 
TTh 8:30-10:20 
L. Fisher 
American Civility.  In the American literary tradition,
 the “land of the free, home of the brave” often figures as an untamed wilderness
 – the untainted territory of “natural man.”  And, alternately, American
 writers have imagined their nation as a model society of republican virtue,
 peopled by democratically cultured citizens.  Through our readings
of course texts we will examine writers’ responses to social movements and
historical conditions that have contributed to changing conceptions of the
“nature” and culture of the American people.  We will investigate early
Americans’ fascination with imagery of vast untamed lands full of rustic
pioneers and Indians, and then ask how later writers’ responses to such institutions
and conditions as American slavery, immigration, class unrest, gender inequality, 
and racial tensions revisit and revise powerful ideologies that have produced 
Americans and American national identity.  This is a discussion course 
– your active participation is key.  Requirements: regular written responses 
to readings, group project, final longer paper. Majors only, Registration 
Period 1.  Texts: Zitkala-Sa, American Indian Stories; 
Harriet Beecher Stowe, Uncle Tom’s Cabin; Ralph Ellison, Invisible 
Man; Edgar Rice Burroughs, Tarzan of the Apes; Henry James, Daisy 
Miller; Stephen Crane, Maggie: A Girl of the Streets; photocopied 
course packet. 
351 A (American Literature: The Colonial Period) 
Dy 8:30 
J. Griffith 
 We’ll read and discuss an assortment of novels, memoirs, sermons, journals,
 treatises and other writings by American authors of teh Colonial and early
 national periods.  Students will be expected to attend class regularly,
 keep up with reading assignments, and take part in open discussions. 
 Written work will consist entirely of between five and ten brief in-class
 essays, done in responses to study questions handed out in advance. Majors
 only, Registration Period 1.  Texts: John Tanner, The
Falcon: A Narrative of the Captivity and Adventures of John Tanner; Benjamin 
Franklin, The Authobiography and Other Writings; Michael Kammen, ed., 
The Origins of the American Constitution; Charles Brockden Brown, Wieland;
Susanna Rowson, Charlotte Temple and Lucy Temple; St. Jean de Crevecoeur,
Letters from an American Farmer and Sketches of 18th-Centiury American
Life; Hannah Foster, The Coquette; Washington Irving, The Sketch
Book of Geoffrey Crayon. 
352 A (American Literature: The Early Nation) 
Dy 9:30 
Abrams 
 Conflicting visions of the national destiny and the individual identity
in the early years of America's nationhood. Majors only, Registration
Period 1.  Texts: Margaret Fuller, Summer on the Lakes;
Frederick Douglass, The Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass;
Henry Thoreau, The Portable Thoreau; Nathaniel Hawthorne, The Portable
Hawthorne; Ralph Waldo Emerson, Selections from Ralph Waldo Emerson;
Herman Melville, Moby-Dick. 
353 A (American Literature: Later 19th C.) 
Dy 10:30 
Abrams 
 We will concentrate on major American writers and their efforts to create 
satisfying art during an especially interesting period in American history.  
How these authors responded to a variety of traumas, jolts, and anxieties--the 
Civil War, the accelerating rate of growth and technological change, the rise
of commercialism, the waning of old values, the new discoveries of science--will 
be the subject of the course.  Probably two papers of reasonable length 
and a final exam. Majors only, Registration Periods 1.  Texts: 
Emily Dickinson, The Complete Poems; Mark Twain, Adventures of Huckleberry
Finn; Henry James, The Portable Henry James; Rebecca Harding Davis,
Life in the Iron Mills and Other Stories; Stephen Crane, The Portable
Stephen Crane; Kate Chopin, The Awakening and Selected Stories.

353 B (American Literature: Later 19th C.) 
 TTh 1:30-3:20 
 Joly 
 [Literary responses to an America propelled forward by accelerating and
complex forces. Works by Twain, James, and such other writers as Whitman,
Dickinson, Adams, Wharton, Howells, Crane, Dreiser, DuBois, and Chopin.]
Majors only, Registration Period 1. 
354 A (American Literature: The Early Modern Period) 
TTh 11:30-1:20 
L. Fisher 
 In this course we will examine significant texts representative of trends 
in American writing produced between the world wars.  In our discussion 
of these texts, we will try to arrive at some conclusions about how we can 
define this period (and possibly how this period resists definition). 
 The age of modernism – commonly characterized by a cultural movement of
disruption, innovation, reconceptualization, disillusion, isolation and reintegration 
– produced  a wealth of fascinating art in America.  We will immerse 
ourselves in the styles and subject matter of a handful of American modernists, 
articulating for ourselves what it is that distinguishes each artist and what
commonalities, if any, exist among a diverse selection of course texts.  
This is not a lecture class, and I expect everyone to participate in class 
discussions and group work. Requirements: Three take-home essay exams 
and a group project.   Majors only, Registration Period 1.  
Texts: William Faulkner, Light in August; Nella Larsen, Quicksand/Passing; 
Gertrude Stein, Three Lives; Willa Cather, My Antonia; Ernest 
Hemingway, The Sun Also Rises; photocopied course packet. 
354YA (American Literature: The Early Modern Period) 
MW 4:30-6:20 pm 
Barnett 
 Literary responses to the disillusionment after World War I, experiments
in form and in new ideas of a new period. Works by such writers as Anderson,
 Toomer, Cather, O'Neill, Frost, Pound, Eliot, Cummings, Hemingway, Fitzgerald,
 Faulkner, Stein, Hart Crane, Stevens, and Porter. Evening Degree students
 only, Registration Period 1.  Texts: Nella Larsen, Quicksand/Passing;
 Willa Cather, O Pioneers!; Jean Toomer, Cane; Americo Paredes,
 George Washington Gomez; William Faulkner, Absalom, Absalom!; 
F. Scott Fitzgerald, Tender is the Night. 
358 A (Literature of Black Americans) 
MW 11:30-1:20 
McDade 
 African-American Literature 358 is an introduction to literature by African  
Americans.  It includes a study of the historical and cultural context 
within which the literature evolved.. (Offered jointly with AFRAM 358.)  
Majors only, Registration Period 1. Texts: Long & Collier, 
Afro-American Writing: An Anthology; Ralph Ellison, Invisible Man; 
Richard Wright, Native Son. 
359 A (Contemporary American Indian Literature) 
 MW 2:30-4:20 
 Shafer 
 [Creative writings -- novels, short stories, poems -- of contemporary Indian 
authors; traditions out of which they evolved. Differences between Indian 
writers and writers of the dominant European/American mainstream. Offered: 
jointly with AIS 377. ]  Majors only, Registration Period 1.

363 A (Literature & the Other Arts & Disciplines) 
MW 12:30-2:20 
Searle
Music and Poetry. 
 This course offers an intensive examination of conceptual, theoretical,
and aesthetic relations between poetry and music.  It will not focus
on such relations as songs or words set to music, but will explore
instead the nature of the two arts as essentially mediated and explicitly
expressive forms of thinking. No prior training is presupposed, either in
literary or musical theory, but all students will write papers that involve
working closely with both literary texts and musical compositions, including
a final essay on one or more literary works that are intimately concerned
with music. This course also has a required practical, performative element,
either in a musical ensemble, singing or playing instruments (preferred option)
or in a thoroughly rehearsed poetry reading.  The final, that is to
say, is a private concert, by the class and for the class.  This will
require (as homework) at least one hour a week for group rehearsals and preparation. 
Groups will be organized in the first week of the quarter, and assistance
will be provided for selection of materials, rehearsals, and coaching as
required. (Meets with C LIT 421A)  Texts: F. Nietzsche, The
Birth of Tragedy from the Spirit of Music; Aaron Copland, Music and
Imagination; AMSCO, The Little Book of Music Theory; J. S. Bach,
Inventions, Little Preludes & Fughetta; Ludwig von Beethoven,
Late String Quartets; Milan Kundera, The Unbearable Lightness of
Being; The Book of Laughter and Forgetting; The Art of the Novel. 
368 A (Women Writers) 
TTh 10:30-12:20 
Kaplan 
British Women Writers of the 1920s.  The decade following 
the end of World War I was a significant one for women.  British women 
finally were able to vote and the long struggle over women’s suffrage had 
ended.  This class will focus on the fiction of women during this decade 
and how it reflected both their changed status and their imaginative responses 
to their newly won independence.  We will read fiction by Virginia Woolf, 
Katherine Mansfield, Sylvia Townsend Warner, Jean Rhys, Radclyffe Hall, and 
Dorothy Sayers.  Texts: Virginia Woolf, A Room of One’s Own; 
To the Lighthouse; Katherine Mansfield, The Garden Party and Other 
Stories; Jean Rhys, Quartet; Radclyffe Hall, The Well of Loneliness; 
Sylvia Townsend Warner, Lolly Willowes; Dorothy Sayers, Gaudy Night.

368 B (Women Writers) 
MW 8:30-10:20 
Taranath 
South Asian Literature: Contemporary Writings from Bangladesh, Pakistan,
 Sri Lanka and India.  This reading-intensive course investigates
 literature written by women from South Asia.  We will read mostly novels 
in conjunction with some short stories and social history. Topics that will 
be covered include the following: social constructions of identity; sexuality 
and cultural production; class relations; race and racism; patriarchy; imperialism 
and colonial history; gender identities and feminism.  Students who enroll
in this course must be prepared to engage with these and other related issues. 
By reading and discussing such a wide variety of literature, the course encourages
students toward three interrelated goals: (1) to expand students’ points
of reference; (2) to develop an analysis of how gender, sexuality, religion,
nation, class, and race impact the lived experiences of many South Asians;
(3) to begin to learn how to analyze literature and literary texts. Texts:
Sunny Singh, Nani’s Book of Suicides; Urvashi Butalia, The Other
Side of Silence: Voices of Partition; R. Vanita & S. Kidwai, eds.,
Same Sex Love in India: Readings in Literatures and History;  Y.
Hameed, ed., So You Can Know Me: An Anthology of Pakistani Women Writers;
V. K. Mina, The Splintered Day; L. Anterjanam, Cast Me Out If You
Will: Stories and Memoirs. 
370 A (English Language Study)
TTh 11:30-1:20 
Vaughan 
  In this course, we will introduce various ways we can study and understand
 human language.  The course will exemplify systematic ways we have
of describing features of language and language use by looking carefully
at elements of the structure, style, syntax, and history of English. 
We will consider words and their sounds, their origins and development. 
 We’ll investigate and discuss dialects and Standard English; prescriptive
 and descriptive grammars; and various social aspects of language use and
language policy.  Our goal in the course will be for students to develop
some confidence in and demonstrate some competence in describing what language
 is and how it works.  Assignments will include oral and written classroom
 exercises, short essays and reports, and a final exam.  Majors only, 
Registration Period 1.  Texts: Stewart & Vailette, Language
 Files, 8th ed.; David Crystal, Language Play. 
381 A (Advanced Expository Writing) 
MW 12:30-1:50 
Keeling 
 [Concentration on the development of prose style for experienced writers.]
 Majors only, Registration Period 1. Texts: Virginia Woolf, 
Mrs. Dalloway; Mrs. Dalloway's Party; Michael Cunningham, The Hours;
 Robin Lippincott, Mr. Dalloway: A Novella; Seldent, Widdowson, Brooker,
 eds., Reader's Guide to Contemporary Literary Theory, 4th ed. 
381 B (Advanced Expository Writing) 
 TTh 9:30-10:50 
 Plevin 
 [Concentration on the development of prose style for experienced writers.]
 Majors only, Registration Period 1. 
383 A (Intermediate
 Verse Writing) 
TTh 11:30-12:50 
McElroy 
 Poetry writing workshop.  Requirements: minimum of seven (7) workshop
 poems following bardic exercise assignments.  Attention to metaphor,
 music, and pattern. Techniques leading to class reading of poems from text,
 and required attendance at two public readings.  Prerequisite: ENGL 
283. Text: Spreading the Word: Editors on Poetry. 
383 B (Intermediate
 Verse Writing) 
TTh 2:30-3:50  
Kenney 
 Intensive study of the ways and means of making a poem. Further development
 of fundamental skills. Emphasis on revision. Prerequisite: ENGL 283.  No
texts. 
384 A (Intermediate
 Short Story Writing) 
 MW 11:30-12:50 
 Gunn 
 [Exploring and developing continuity in the elements of fiction writing. 
 Methods of extending and sustaining plot, setting, character, point of view, 
and tone. Prerequisite: ENGL 284.] 
384 U (Intermediate
 Short Story Writing) 
Tues. 4:30 – 7:10 pm 
Bosworth 
 This course will aim to foster the discipline necessary to write regularly,
 to elaborate on the elementary skills of fiction writing and on the techniques
 necessary to design a completed story. It presumes, therefore, previous
experience in fiction writing. We will practice as well, through the reading
of exemplary stories and fellow students' work, the critical reading skills
necessary for any aspiring writer. If you can't read carefully, you can't
write carefully; if you can't help solve another author's fictional problems,
you're unlikely to be capable of solving your own. Fiction writing is a serious
way of knowing the world, an no time will be squandered on analyzing the
commercial marketplace, or on how one might reduplicate fiction whose only
function is the passing of time or the making of money. Prerequisite:
ENGL 284.







		UW English Undergraduate Programs
		Page maintained by 
Linda Ahern
Updated November 27 2010 




 top 



